---
layout: what-we-upto 
title: Ncell App Camp 2014
description: ""
modified: December 25, 2015
tags: [ncell, appcamp, mobile nepal, mobile]
comments: true
categories: what-we-upto-category
image:
  thumb: what-we-upto/ncell-appcamp-2014_thumb.jpg
  feature: what-we-upto/ncell-appcamp-2014.jpg
---

Continuing passionate work in areas stimulating the existing mobile community in Nepal, YoungInnovations recently facilitated the planning and implementation of [Ncell App Camp, 2014](http://ncellappcamp.com/). The idea was to promote and support entrepreneurial ideas within mobile ecosystem of Nepal. Innovative mobile app ideas and products which have the ability to stand as a business were nurtured, appreciated and rewarded in the event.

Nell App Camp called for participants and received 457 ideas under four categories, namely, agriculture, corporate solutions, education and tourism out of which 150 were selected. The selected participants attended thematic seminars and training on development and designing of mobile apps, business development and pitching & presentation from November 4-21, 2014. Finally, on December 2, 2014, top 24 finalists were selected by independent selection panel members. On the grand finale from December 9-11, the finalists from four different categories pitched their business ideas and demonstrated their product in front of judges. The best from each category, viz ICT for Agriculture, SentiNep, Corporate Solutions, RitiRiwaj and Lipi (The Script) won the final award of Rs. 250,000 from agriculture, corporate solutions, education and tourism sector respectively. The grand prize winner, ICT for Agriculture, won Rs. 500,000 for their outstanding product among the 24 finalists. All the winners will now work to create a complete product with sound technology and business model.

YoungInnovations, through [Mobile Social Networking Nepal](http://mobilenepal.net/) and events such as [Pivot Nepal](http://pivot.mobilenepal.net/), has worked in creating a platform for young entrepreneurs in mobile app development sector. Thus, YoungInnovations combines this expertise with its objective and helped in organizing Ncell App Camp.

Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Bibhusan Bista proved to be an integral part of the preparatory events both as a [key note speaker](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uUkeIBltSmk) and as a facilitator in a number of Interaction Programs including one with Tommy Palm, developer of Candy Crush Saga. Mr. Anjesh Tuladhar, Chief Innovations Officer, was a technical mentor assisting participants of tourism category. He also conducted technical sessions on "Technology, Performance and Scalability" and "SMS Based Application", along with Mr. Anjan Shrestha, Vice President, Product Innovations, who presented ideas on "Designing for Android". Community Innovations Manager at YoungInnovations Mr. Prawesh Shrestha along with Ms. Aayushree Joshi provided overall coordination of the event. The team of YoungInnovations communicated with the mentors, jury members, technical and business experts from different fields throughout the event. Before the formal events, members from YoungInnovations organized interaction programs with students from 17 educational institutes in Kathmandu Valley and around it to educate and excite students about developing mobile apps as an attractive entrepreneurial venture. 

The event, thus, happily concluded on December 11, 2014 celebrating mobile application entrepreneurship encouraging young experts to consider this area as an appealing business opportunity in Nepal.